okay let's get more now on uh the
Israeli government decision to close
down the uh Al jazer uh TV channel uh in
Israel this has been happening
throughout the day and Sebastian user is
our Middle East Analyst at the BBC World
Service and we've had some some news in
um just in the last half an hour or so
Sebastian from Frank Gardner our
security correspondent in Jerusalem who
says that Israeli police have already
raided the offices of the Qatar based
Channel um and that was just within
hours wasn't it of of that decision
right to to shut it down it it seems
very very Swift it is it's Swift but it
has been building for some time and this
is something that the Israeli government
now this far right government has very
much pushed for and especially in the
context of the Gaza War event since
October the 7th the hamus attacks on
Israel then in which Al jazer which
Israel has accused for a very long time
of being anti-israeli it's acted against
its journalists uh journalists have been
killed I mean most famously two years
ago Shireen Abu Akay the star
correspondent of Al jazer for the Arab
Service uh that they run uh in the
occupied territories was killed aljer
accused Israel 100% of having carried it
out since then Israel has uh has said
that it it you know the the chances are
that it was uh an accidental uh killing
so this this showdown between these
between aleser and Israel goes back a
long way but really this has become much
stronger during the Gaza war and aler
has been really the only International
medor Outlet which has been able to keep
its reporters on the ground there
they've been reporting essentially 24
hours a day on its Arab language Channel
and its English language Channel and
again that's something which the Israeli
government uh is very much against and
believes is essentially acting as a
mouthpiece for Hamas and they've said
that explicitly they've even accused Al
jazer staff of of collaborating with
Hamas so this announcement today which
was made by the Prime Minister Netanyahu
was followed very swiftly by the
communications Minister saying he'd
signed it and as we as as we've seen
actually the communications Minister
posted video of the raid within a couple
of hours of this happening uh so the
powers that Israel has over Al jazer to
confiscate its uh broadcasting equipment
to close its offices and to block access
to it on satellite and its websites now
what we're hearing from Israel is that
that has happened that it's no longer uh
obtainable by satellite or cable in
Israel but there's other ways of doing
it and again as as as Frank was saying
you can get it on Facebook now very
difficult in this day and age obviously
to completely close down access to uh to
a network like aleser I wonder in your
anal Anis what do you think this means
in terms of people's views of netan who
we have seen more protests haven't we in
recent months but uh for the for the
people in Israel in particular what what
do you think their perception will be of
this and probably I'm look I'm thinking
more in terms of free speech yes no I
understand that I mean I think in terms
of the uh critics of netan who date back
before October the 7th who basically
went on the streets and hundreds of
thousands every Saturday to protest
against what they saw as a move by his
government to close down the ability for
the Judiciary to take uh positions
against what the government wanted to do
they would say this is another attack on
Free Speech I think many Israelis though
would see it as this is a time of War Al
jazer I think many people uh if if they
do watch it would see it as some kind of
propaganda they would see it as taking
too strongly a prop Palestinian anti
Israeli position so I don't think it'll
change particularly the way that
Israelis see netan if they already see
him as someone who's opposed to free
speech who's opposed to democracy in
Israel then they will see this as
another sign of it but for many others
it will be mixed up with this feeling
which is you know this this is a time of
War just as you have many Israelis who
are very much against the way that the
war has been fought by the Israeli
government and Israeli military and and
and and the casualties on the paltin
side they're not necessarily against the
fact of a war in the first place because
of what happened October the 7th okay
Sebastian user thank you very much